# Jupyterbook Support

We use [jupyterbook](https://jupyterbook.org/intro.html) to create a condensed, single interface to all our course materials. This book will be autogenerated and published to [https://neuromatchacademy.github.io/course-content] in `gh-pages` branch, every time a PR is merged into the master branch.

The GitHub workflow is defined in `.github/workflows/publish-book.yml`. 

In order to build the book locally, you will need to do the following:

1. Clone course-content repo

`git clone https://github.com/NeuromatchAcademy/course-content.git`

2. Download nmaci repo (main branch)

`wget https://github.com/NeuromatchAcademy/nmaci/archive/refs/heads/main.tar.gz`

`tar -xzf main.tar.gz`

`rm -rf main.tar.gz`

3. Download precourse repo (main branch)

`wget https://github.com/NeuromatchAcademy/precourse/archive/refs/heads/main.tar.gz`

`tar -xzf main.tar.gz`

`rm -rf main.tar.gz`

3. Install dependencies

`pip install -r ../nmaci-main/requirements.txt`

`pip install jupyter-book==0.10.2`

**Important:** Do not install jupyter-book 0.11 or later at this point, as there are breaking changes in how it handles the table of contents file we generate.

4. Copy files from precourse to `tutorials/`

`cd course-content`

`mv ../precourse-main/tutorials/W0D* tutorials/`

`cat precourse-main/tutorials/materials.yml tutorials/materials.yml > out.yml`

`mv out.yml tutorials/materials.yml`

5. Create a symlink in the book dir to the tutorials dir. From the repo (i.e., course-content) root directory:

`ln -s ../tutorials book/tutorials`

`ln -s ../projects book/projects`

6. Prepare repo for book building 

`python ../nmaci-main/scripts/generate_book.py arg`

where `arg` can take either `student` or `instructor` as a value.

This will use the modified tutorials/materials.yml to create the `_toc.yml` file in the book directory. It will also be responsible for creating any additional markdown files or modifying any tutorial notebooks specifically for book generation. 

**No changes created by this script should be committed to the repo.**

7. Build the book

`jupyter-book build book`

This will create a `book/_build` directory. You can open the `index.html` in any browser to verify the book.
